Possible Data Sharing Agreement (#1638)
agrc/gis.utah.gov: about/policy/data-sharing-agreement/index.md

---
title: State Geographic Information Database (SGID) Data Sharing Agreement
layout: page_nocrumb
author:
  display_name: UGRC Office
  email: ugrc@utah.gov
tags:
  - license
  - policy
categories: []
date: 2021-07-16 17:00:00 -0700
---

## Applicability
{: .text-left}

The following Data Sharing Agreement applies to all individuals and organizations sharing data with the SGID in any way.

> In order to reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by submitting a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to introduce your data to the SGID, you consent to this Data Sharing Agreement. In cases where UGRC submits the Porter issue on your behalf, UGRC will contact you via email to get your consent to this agreement.

Reviewer: should this porter link (eventually) open a new issue using a data sharing-specific template?  maybe the porter template makes mention of this page as a way of saying you agree to these terms: specifically, the "The steward will ... ".

Author: Yeah, I am planning on making those edits once this gets merged.

> In order to reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by submitting a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to introduce your data to the SGID, you consent to this Data Sharing Agreement. In cases where UGRC submits the Porter issue on your behalf, UGRC will contact you via email to get your consent to this agreement.

Reviewer: this sentence seems too complex to me.  i like what it's saying, but it took me a few reads to get it.  

I wonder if it would read the same without the intro "In order to reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID"?

I think the main idea is that you are consenting to this data-sharing agreement when sharing data into the sgid.

maybe the next paragraph goes into how to share... you submit the porter form or we can do it for you.

?? just a thought.  but, honestly, it looks great the way you have it.  I'm just nit-picking.

Author: No, I think you're right, it is complex. I'll take one last stab at making it more clear.

> ## Definitions

Reviewer: i really like have these definitions spelled out.  nice work! I'll get on board with using these terms.  i think we all should.

{: .text-left}

> **"Aggregate data"** refers to any data that cover a specific area of the state and are provided by another organization (such as a city or county) for UGRC to combine with other similar data into statewide datasets.

Reviewer: are we planning on reaching out to our existing county stewards about this, or just putting this out there as a place to point folks to if questions arise?

Reviewer 2: i believe jake mentioned this was intended for new data

Reviewer: i like that plan

Author: Yes to both. A lot of our existing coordination is probably governed by statute or specific agreements, and technically this can be interpreted to just apply to new datasets (though the line at the beginning does reference everything). I view it as similar to our CC license- we're just explicitly stating our intents to maintain good data.

Reviewer: nice.  i like it.

---
title: State Geographic Information Database (SGID) Data Sharing Agreement
layout: page_nocrumb
author:
  display_name: UGRC Office
  email: ugrc@utah.gov
tags:
  - license
  - policy
categories: []
date: 2020-01-25 17:00:00 -0700
---

The following Data Sharing Agreement applies to all individuals and organizations sharing data with the SGID in any way.

> `<Four different levels of getting agreement/acknowledgement, from easiest to most onerous>`

Reviewer 3: Does this imply we will only accept new SGID contributions via Porter issues completed by the steward?

Author: I think so. If Porter's purpose is to ensure that additions/removals are tracked and that all the necessary steps are taken/wired up, accepting data outside of Porter kind of defeats the whole purpose.

Author: Or were you focusing on the "completed by the steward" part?

Reviewer 3: this
> Or were you focusing on the "completed by the steward" part?

Author: I'm thinking even if we have the statute authority to add any state-created data, it's good neighborliness to work with the steward. If I'm tracking what you're implying, this means we can't open/complete an issue on their behalf, which introduces the hurdle of them knowing github to the process.

If that's the problem, maybe we can add a provision for an emailed acknowledgement of the agreement.

Reviewer 3: Yes, we certainly want to and will work with them. My main concern is making a steward complete a Porter issue if they're uncomfortable with it so, yes, some provision for accepting the agreement in an alternative manner.

Author: I've updated the text; let me know your thoughts.

Reviewer 3: I like it, thank you. Made another small suggestion to eliminate slight redundancy.

> In order to ~~emulate the automatic EULAs of big, powerful software companies~~ reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by completing a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to submit your data to the SGID, you agree to this Data Sharing Agreement.

Reviewer 2: i think the joke could be removed.

Author: Party pooper :) Yeah, if/when we settle on this method (sounds like we're close, but I'd like to get feedback from @brigsz and @gregbunce) I'll clean it up.

You must visit `<Google Form/other web-based form and response tracker>` and agree to this Data Sharing Agreement prior to creating a new [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to submit your data to the SGID.

—OR—

You must submit a signed copy of this Data Sharing Agreement to our office prior to creating a new [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to submit your data to the SGID.

## Definitions
{: .text-left}

**"Aggregate data"** refers to any data that cover a specific area of the state and are provided by another organization (such as a city or county) for UGRC to combine with other similar data into statewide datasets.

**"External data"** refers to any data stored or hosted by a person or organization outside of UGRC.

**"Hosted data"** refers to any data stored, maintained, and served by UGRC, whether created by UGRC or provided by another organization. It may include aggregate data.

**"SGID entry"** refers to any of the following:

1. Links in the SGID Index to external data
1. Links and references in opendata.gis.utah.gov to external data in the form of ArcGIS Online items owned by other organizations
1. Hosted data in the Open SGID

> 1. Hosted data in UGRC's ArcGIS Online organization that are shared with an SGID ArcGIS Online group or the "AGRC Shelf" group

Reviewer 4: I guess this is still technically the "AGRC Shelf" group based on the naming in AGOL, right?

Author: Yeah. I'll update this once we get that sorted out.

> The **"steward"** refers to the individual or organization that shares data with UGRC for inclusion in the SGID.

Reviewer 4: Should we include some form of "maintains" here under the definition of steward?  Like "maintains, edits, and/or shares data with UGRC"?

Author: I don't think we need to... I think the main purpose of this is just to distinguish that they are the ones providing the data to us. ie, a data provider that is not UGRC. The main focus is the source of the shared data.

## Access and Data Quality Provisions
{: .text-left}

- UGRC will make all SGID entries available to the general public without any form of login or account.

> - UGRC may edit any hosted data to fix any technical errors that prevent the data from being stored in the relevant databases.

Reviewer 2: **nitpick**: i think replacing database with something more generic is an improvement. 

```suggestion
- UGRC may edit any hosted data to fix any technical errors that prevent the data from being shared in the SGID.
```

- UGRC may edit any aggregate data to conform with established standards and schemas for statewide datasets.
- The steward will ensure any links or connections to external data remain live and do not require any form of login or account.

> - The steward will take reasonable efforts to not modify the schema of all external data, with the exception of adding new fields.

Reviewer 2: **question**: should we add some text about prior notice of breaking schema changes?

Author: That the steward will give us prior notice?

Reviewer 2: Yeah. So we can plan instead of react

> - The steward may request UGRC to remove their SGID entries at any time. UGRC will comply with these requests as quickly as possible through the normal [dataset deprecation process](https://github.com/agrc/porter/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/2-deprecate-sgid-dataset.md).

Reviewer 2: **thought**: this sounds like it could be problematic if the data is highly utilized

Author: (assuming you're talking about removal requests) My goal was to formalize our current behavior. Is this text too encouraging about dataset removal? Maybe something like 'may request to remove if necessary'?

Reviewer 2: yeh what if someone gets mad and wants to remove land ownership or something. It seems like a [left-pad npm like issue](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/141577284765/kik-left-pad-and-npm)

Author: woah, that was a big mess. How does the new language strike you? The link anchor is for a new policy page (an older but more-or-less the same version is in the old PR at https://deploy-preview-1627--gis-utah-gov.netlify.app/about/policy/sgid/#reasons-for-removal).

Author: I've made another edit; now links to the full removal section.

---
title: State Geographic Information Database (SGID) Data Sharing Agreement
layout: page_nocrumb
author:
  display_name: AGRC Office
  email: agrc@utah.gov
tags:
  - license
  - policy
categories: []
date: 2020-01-25 17:00:00 -0700
---

The following Data Sharing Agreement applies to all individuals and organizations sharing data with the SGID in any way.

`<Four different levels of getting agreement/acknowledgement, from easiest to most onerous>`

> In order to ~~emulate the automatic EULAs of big, powerful software companies~~ reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by completing a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to submit your data to the SGID, you agree to this Data Sharing Agreement.

Reviewer 2: i like this method.

Reviewer 3: > i like this method.

+1

"SGID entry" refers to any of the following:

1. Links in the SGID Index to external data
1. Links and references in opendata.gis.utah.gov to external data in the form of ArcGIS Online items owned by other organizations
1. Hosted data in the Open SGID
1. Hosted data in AGRC's ArcGIS Online organization that are shared with an SGID group or the "AGRC Shelf" group

The "steward" refers to the individual or organization that shares data with AGRC for inclusion in the SGID.

## Access Provisions
{: .text-left}

- AGRC will make all SGID entries available to the general public without any form of login or account.
- AGRC may edit any hosted data to fix any technical errors that prevent the data from being stored in the relevant databases.
- AGRC may edit any aggregate data to conform with established standards and schemas for statewide datasets.
- The steward will ensure any links or connections to external data remain live and do not require any form of login or account.
- The steward will take reasonable efforts to not modify the schema of all external data, with the exception of adding new fields.

> - The steward may request AGRC to remove their SGID entries at any time. AGRC will comply with these requests as quickly as possible through the normal dataset deprecation process.

Reviewer 4: Add link here to 'dataset deprecation process' issue template(s)?

`<Four different levels of getting agreement/acknowledgement, from easiest to most onerous>`

> In order to ~~emulate the automatic EULAs of big, powerful software companies~~ reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by submitting a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to submit your data to the SGID, you consent to this Data Sharing Agreement. In cases where UGRC submits the Porter issue on your behalf, UGRC will contact you via email to get your consent to this agreement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to ~~emulate the automatic EULAs of big, powerful software companies~~ reduce the friction of adding data to the SGID, by submitting a [Porter issue](https://github.com/agrc/porter/issues) to introduce your data to the SGID, you consent to this Data Sharing Agreement. In cases where UGRC submits the Porter issue on your behalf, UGRC will contact you via email to get your consent to this agreement.
```
